---
layout: post
title: Digital Signature vs digital certificate
date: 2015-07-16 09:17
author: weliwita@gmail.com
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
In this article I will be describing the difference between digital signature vs digital certificate.

what is a digital signature?
-Digital signature is a encrypted hash of message

Message : "this is my secret"

Hash Of Message(Sha256) : edc64c6523778961fe9ba03ab7d624b27ca1dd5b01e7734cc6c891d50db04269

Encrypted Hash Of Message using public key of the recipient:

https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/tswxhw92(v=vs.110).aspx

http://stackoverflow.com/questions/19249396/encrypting-data-using-rsa-public-and-private-key-in-c-sharp

&nbsp;

What is Certificate
- This public key is belong to him

example of encrypting and decription using certificate.

A digital signature is basically an encrypted hash of the message. The recipient can check if the message was tampered with by hashing the received message and comparing this value with the decrypted signature.

To decrypt the signature, the corresponding public key is required.

A digital certificate is used to bind public keys to persons or other entities. If there were no certificates, the signature could be easily be forged, as the recipient could not check if the public key belongs to the sender.

The certificate itself is signed by a trusted third party, a Certificate Authority like VeriSign.

&nbsp;

When building that PKI, you could choose SHA-256, or SHA-384 along with RSA Keys of 4096 bits or ECC keys of 256 or 384 bits. I agree that this adds complexity, but I find in the IT industry that we’re constantly dragging older applications and devices into a new security world – often, kicking and screaming the entire way.
