---
layout: post
title: Repositories
date: 2015-08-22 07:04
author: weliwita@gmail.com
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
Here are links for some different types of repository implementations.

1. http://www.asp.net/mvc/overview/older-versions/getting-started-with-ef-5-using-mvc-4/implementing-the-repository-and-unit-of-work-patterns-in-an-asp-net-mvc-application

Very good article describing how to use repositories, approved by Microsoft.

2. http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/526874/Repositorypluspattern-cplusdoneplusright

Good article with paging nhibernate and eneity framework implementations.

3. http://rob.conery.io/2014/03/04/repositories-and-unitofwork-are-not-a-good-idea/

rob conery say it is a bad idea to use repositories

4. http://ayende.com/blog/3955/repository-is-the-new-singleton

http://ayende.com/blog/4784/architecting-in-the-pit-of-doom-the-evils-of-the-repository-abstraction-layer

ayende is against this too.

5.https://lostechies.com/jimmybogard/2012/10/08/favor-query-objects-over-repositories/

ok jimmy bogard is also against it.

others

http://www.reddnet.net/entity-framework-its-not-a-stack-of-pancakes/

http://www.thereformedprogrammer.net/is-the-repository-pattern-useful-with-entity-framework-part-2/

So what they suggest instead.
<pre class="csharpcode">var query = 
  (
        from post <span class="kwrd">in</span> session.Query&lt;Post&gt;()
        <span class="kwrd">where</span> post.DueDate &gt; DateTime.Now 
        select post
   )
   .FilterAccordingToUserPermissions(CurrentUser)
   .ToList();</pre>
"For write operations, the situation is (slightly) different. Write operations usually have business logic, and you want to keep that separate. I would still want to avoid doing anything too abstract, and I would certainly not introduce a repository for writes." - ayende

"I would do is either create a service layer(see preference below) for writes that handle the actual business of doing writes, but (and this is <em>important</em>), I would only do so if there is actually logic to be executed. If this is merely a simple CUD operation that we are executing, there is really very little point to going with a service. Yes, that means using NHibernate directly from the controller method to save whatever it is that you are editing, assuming that there is nothing that requires business logic there"

To be frank, for the pieces that actually require business logic, I would probably prefer to avoid an explicit service implementation and move to using an internal publish / subscribe (event publisher) in order to have a nicer internal architecture

So how to go forward?
<ul>
	<li>When using a database, use NHibernate’s ISession directly</li>
	<li>Encapsulate complex queries into query objects that construct an ICriteria query that I can get and manipulate further</li>
	<li>When using something other than a database, create a DAO for that, respecting the underlying storage implementation</li>
	<li>Don’t try to <a href="http://davybrion.com/blog/2009/04/educate-developers-instead-of-protecting-them/">protect developers</a></li>
</ul>
&nbsp;

Extension methods let you extend a DbSet on the fly. They are fantastic for dealing with business context specific concerns, and you can have a different set of extension methods for each of your business contexts.

For cross-cutting concerns that span multiple entity types, you can extend the DbContext itself. A common approach is to have multiple concrete roots for each of your business contexts

but the key concept is that each top-level service derives from a real DbContext… your calling code has all the LINQ and EF goodness at its disposal.

Example:

https://github.com/NullDesk/TicketDesk

=======

http://mehdi.me/ambient-dbcontext-in-ef6/ (which generally revolve around using a DI container to inject <code>DbContext</code> instances with a PerWebRequest lifetime)Its domain model is separated into several independent groups, each with their own <code>DbContext</code> type. Any approach assuming a single <code>DbContext</code> type won't work here.

It relies heavily on third-party remote APIs, such as the Facebook, Twitter or LinkedIn APIs. These aren't transactional. Many user actions require us to make multiple remote API calls before we can return a result to the user. Many of the articles I linked to make the assumption that "1 web request = 1 business transaction" that either gets committed or rolled back in an atomic manner (hence the idea of using a PerWebRequest-scope <code>DbContext</code> instance)
<h3 id="yourservicesmustbeincontrolofthebusinesstransactionboundarybutnotnecessarilyincontrolofthedbcontextinstancelifetime">Your services must be in control of the business transaction boundary (but not necessarily in control of the <code>DbContext</code> instance lifetime)</h3>
Perhaps the main source of confusion when it comes to managing <code>DbContext</code> instances is understanding the difference between the lifetime of a <code>DbContext</code> instance and the lifetime of a business transaction and how they relate.

<code>DbContext</code> implements the <a href="http://martinfowler.com/eaaCatalog/unitOfWork.html">Unit of Work pattern</a>:
<ul>
	<li>A service method <em>must use the same <code>DbContext</code> instance throughout the duration of a business transaction</em>. This is so that all the changes made to your persistent model are tracked and either committed to the underlying data store or rolled back in an atomic manner.</li>
	<li>Your services must be the sole components in your application responsible for calling the<code>DbContext.SaveChanges()</code> method at the end of a business transaction. Should other parts of the application call the <code>SaveChanges()</code> method (e.g. repository methods), you will end up with partially committed changes, leaving your data in an inconsistent state.</li>
	<li>The <code>SaveChanges()</code> method must be called exactly once at the end of each business transaction. Inadvertently calling this method in the middle of a business transaction may leave the system with inconsistent, partially committed changes.</li>
	<li>A <code>DbContext</code> instance can however span across multiple (sequential) business transactions. Once a business transaction has completed and has called the <code>DbContext.SaveChanges()</code> method to persist all the changes it made, it's entirely possible to just re-use the same <code>DbContext</code> instance for the next business transaction.</li>
</ul>
It's quite common to a use a configuration where a <code>DbContext</code> instance is created at the beginning of each web request, used by all the services invoked during the execution of the web request and eventually disposed of at the end of the request.

Using an instance-per-web-request lifetime for your <code>DbContext</code> in web apps will usually be fine as a web request is short-lived by nature. But using an instance-per-form lifetime in a desktop application, which you'll often find suggested, is a lot more questionable and requires careful thought before being adopted.

Re-using the same <code>DbContext</code> instance for more than one business transaction can also lead to disastrous bugs where a service method accidently commits the changes from a previously failed business transaction.

As a result, it's advisable to avoid managing the lifetime of <code>DbContext</code> instances separately from business transactions. Instead, each service method (i.e. each business transaction) should create its own <code>DbContext</code>instance and dispose it at the end of the business transaction (i.e. before returning).

&nbsp;
<h3 id="dbcontextisnotthreadsafe"><code>DbContext</code> is not thread-safe</h3>
In a multi-threaded application, you must create and use a separate instance of your <code>DbContext</code>-derived class in each thread.

If you find yourself needing to call SaveChanges() * multiple times within a business transaction, it means * that you are in fact implementing multiple business * transactions within a single service method.

In this case, refactor your service method into * multiple service methods that each implement once * and exactly one business transaction.

In practice however, and unless you choose to explicitly manage the database connection or transaction that the DbContext uses, not calling <code>DbContext.Dispose()</code> won't cause any issues <a href="http://blog.jongallant.com/2012/10/do-i-have-to-call-dispose-on-dbcontext.html#.U9efX_ldXpo">as Diego Vega, a EF team member, explains</a>.

The only correct way to manage disposable components with a DI container like this is to significantly complicate your DI configuration and use nested dependency injection containers as<a href="http://codebetter.com/jeremymiller/2010/01/06/how-dovetail-uses-structuremap-with-nhibernate/">Jeremy Miller demonstrates</a>.

As we've seen above, the responsibility of creating and disposing the <code>DbContext</code> lies with the top-level service methods. The data access code, i.e. the code that actually uses the <code>DbContext</code> instance, will however often be made in a separate part of the code - be it in a private method deep down the service implementation, in a query object or in a separate repository layer.

&nbsp;

There are 3 school of thoughts when it comes to making the <code>DbContext</code> instance available to the data access code: ambient, explicit or injected. Each approach has its pros and cons, which we'll examine now.

In .NET itself, this pattern is used quite extensively. You've probably already used <code>HttpContext.Current</code> or the<code>TransactionScope</code> class, both of which rely on the ambient context pattern.

Anders Abel has written <a href="http://coding.abel.nu/2012/10/make-the-dbcontext-ambient-with-unitofworkscope/">a simple implementation of an ambient DbContext</a> that relies on a <code>ThreadStatic</code>variable to store the ambient <code>DbContext</code>. Have a look - there's less to it than it sounds.

A notable one is that <code>DbContext</code> isn't a service. It's a resource. And a Disposable one to boot. By injecting it into whatever layer implement your data access, you're making that layer, and by extension all the layers above which would be pretty much the entire application, stateful.

Having stateless services provides tremendous flexibility and makes the configuration of their lifetime a non-issue (any lifetime would do and singleton is often your best bet). As soon as you introduce stateful services, careful consideration has to be given to your service lifetimes.

resoruces

https://coding.abel.nu/2012/10/make-the-dbcontext-ambient-with-unitofworkscope/

----------------------------

I just have a QueryService, SaveOrUpdateCommand and a DeleteCommand. I can extend the query service in any way needed, because it just returns an IQueryable.

If I need something more complex, I can always wrap, decorate or implement it whenever the need presents itself.
